---
layout: post
title: "Welcome"
date: 2014-02-12 18:48
comments: true
categories: 
---
This is another attempt to start a blog about my personal take on web development. I can't count how many blogs 
I've started before this but they always seem to pitter out before they really get going. I can't promise that
I will continue to update this blog from now until the end of time but I can say that I'll try to keep it
going for at least a few weeks. I already have some ideas for posts that mostly revolve around Ruby and
Ruby on Rails but before I get into that it's probably time for me to introduce myself.

My name is Tyler Morgan, I go by toasty, toastynerd or toastycrack on different corners of the internet
as befitting my needs. I have been tinkering with computers and technology since I was in middle school, 
it included a little bit of code but nothing beyond simple games and shells scipts. I just recently decided to try
to make a living out of writing code. My chosen platform--or the platform that was chosen for me--is Ruby
and Ruby on Rails and most of this blog will reflect that.

I currently am a developer at an early stage startup. It's early enough that I can't give too many details 
but it's called Makindo and focuses on social media and data analytics. Most of my blog posts are going to
come directly from issues I've had to tackle while working for Makindo. Much of the information is going
be available elsewhere on the internet. I'll try to link to pages and posts that I've found especially
useful and maybe I'll throw in an affiliate link to Amazon if I really like a book. Hopefully, it won't be 
too obtrusive. That's the plan but as they say, details fucking suck. Oh yeah, heads up, I like to curse.

-Toasty
